{\rtf1\ansi \deff11{\fonttbl{\f1\froman Times New Roman;}{\f2\fscript Script;}{\f3\froman Roman;}{\f4\fmodern Courier;}{\f5\fswiss Arial;}{\f6\fswiss Helv;}{\f7\fnil Wingdings;}{\f8\froman Symbol;}{\f9\fmodern System Fixed;}{\f10\fswiss Helv;}{\f11\fswiss MS Sans Serif;}}
{\stylesheet
{\s242\tqc\tx4252\tqr\tx8504 \f11\fs20\sbasedon0\snext242 footer;}
{\s244 \f11\fs20\up6 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}
{\s245 \f11\fs12 \sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}
{\f11\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}}
{\info
{\creatim\yr2020\mo5\dy16\hr23\min19}
{\revtim\yr2020\mo5\dy16\hr23\min19}
{\version1}{\edmins40}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern16504}}
\paperw11909\paperh16834\margl1440\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0 \deftab720\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere\titlepg
{\footer \pard\plain \s242\qr\tqc\tx4252\tqr\tx8504 \f11\fs20{\field{\*\fldinst PAGE}{\fldrslt}} }\pard\plain \f11\fs20

{\up6 #{\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 #}idh_Contents}}
{\up6 ${\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 $}Contents}}
\pard \f11\fs20 \pard \qc Natural language interface to U.S. geography.
\par \pard \ql 
\par   {\uldb Tutorial}{\v idh_Tutorial  }
\par   {\uldb Scheme for the entity network}{\v idh_Scheme  }
\par   {\ul Names of entities}{\v idh_Names  }
\par   {\ul Units for attributes}{\v idh_Units_for_attributes  }
\par   {\ul Alternaties for relation operators}{\v idh_Alternaties_for_relation_operators  }
\par   {\ul Words stating maximums}{\v idh_Words_stating_maximums  }
\par   {\ul Words stating minimums}{\v idh_Words_stating_minimums  }
\par\pard\plain\page

{\up6 #{\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 #}idh_Tutorial}}
{\up6 ${\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 $}Tutorial}}
{\up6 K{\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 K} Tutorial}}
\pard \f11\fs20 \pard \qc Tutorial
\par \pard \ql 
\par Geobase demonstrates a natural language interface to a database
\par on U.S. geography. Geobase allows you to query its database in
\par English rather than computerese.  For a more complete discussion 
\par of Geobase and its features please refer to Appendix F in the 
\par Reference Guide.
\par 
\par The database contains the following information:
\par 
\par Information about states:
\par   Area of the state in square kilometers
\par   Population of the state in citizens
\par   Capital of the state
\par   Which states border a given state
\par   Rivers in the state
\par   Cities in the state
\par   Highest and lowest point in the state in meters
\par 
\par Information about rivers:
\par   Length of river in kilometers
\par 
\par Information about cities:
\par   Population of the city in citizens
\par 
\par 
\par You can retrieve any or all of this information by asking questions
\par in normal English. Some sample queries:
\par 
\par    - states
\par 
\par    - give me the cities in california.
\par 
\par    - what is the biggest city in california ?
\par 
\par    - what is the longest river in the usa?
\par 
\par    - which rivers are longer than 1 thousand kilometers?
\par 
\par    - what is the name of the state with the lowest point ?
\par 
\par    - which states border alabama ?
\par 
\par    - which rivers do not run through texas
\par 
\par    - which rivers run through states that border the state
\par      with the capital austin?
\par 
\par 
\par You can modify Geobase as you work with it. If it doesn't
\par understand a word in one of your questions, you can add the word
\par to the language definition. The language is defined in a number
\par of relations, the most important one being the schema. A schema
\par is a description of the logical structure of a database. In
\par Geobase, the schema is the "entity network" for the language. A
\par schema entry follows the form: ENTITY ASSOCIATION ENTITY; this
\par signifies that the two entities are bound together by the given
\par association.
\par 
\par To display the relations and their schema, select View Language
\par from the Geobase main menu, then choose one of the items listed
\par below.
\par 
\par 
\par  1. Schema of relations
\par 
\par     The geographic data is stored in a number of relations. The
\par     schema for these relations is listed here.
\par 
\par  2. Schema of questions
\par 
\par     The schema for all possible questions that can be asked is listed
\par     here. For example, one possibility is:
\par 
\par     > population  of  city <
\par 
\par     That is, what is the population of a given city?
\par 
\par  3. Names of entities
\par 
\par     All known entities are listed here.
\par 
\par  4. Synonyms for entities
\par 
\par     Synonyms for entities are allowed. The previously defined
\par     synonyms are listed here; you can also add synonyms to the
\par     database dynamically.
\par 
\par  5. Synonyms for associations
\par 
\par     Synonyms for associations are allowed and can consist of
\par     more than one word.
\par 
\par  6. Words that are ignored
\par 
\par     Some words are simply ignored by the system since they are not
\par     directly relevant to the meaning of questions. Ignored words are
\par     listed here.
\par 
\par  7. Units for entities
\par 
\par     The units of measure for different entities are listed here. For
\par     instance, the unit for population is "number of citizens".
\par 
\par  8. Synonyms for relational operators
\par 
\par     There are several ways to say that a city is "bigger than" 1 million
\par     citizens or that a river is "shorter than" 1 thousand miles. These
\par     synonyms are listed here.
\par 
\par  9. Alternative ways to designate the minimum
\par 
\par     The different ways to designate adjectives for "minimum" are listed here.
\par 
\par 10. Alternative ways to designate the maximum
\par 
\par     The different ways to designate adjectives for "maximum" are listed here.
\par 
\par\pard\plain\page

{\up6 #{\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 #}idh_Scheme}}
{\up6 ${\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 $}Scheme}}
{\up6 K{\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 K} Scheme}}
\pard \f11\fs20 \pard \qc Scheme for the entity network
\par \pard \ql 
\par 
\par    1. abbreviation of state
\par    2. capital of state
\par    3. state with capital
\par    4. population of state
\par    5. area of state
\par    6. city in state
\par    7. state with city
\par    8. population of city
\par    9. population of capital
\par   10. length of river
\par   11. state with river
\par   12. river in state
\par   13. state border state
\par   14. point in state
\par   15. state with point
\par   16. height of point
\par   17. mountain in state
\par   18. state with mountain
\par   19. height of mountain
\par   20. lake in state
\par   21. state with lake
\par   22. area of lake
\par   23. state with road
\par   24. road in state
\par   25. name of river
\par   26. name of capital 
\par   27. name of city
\par   28. name of state
\par   29. name of point
\par   30. name of mountain
\par   31. name of lake
\par   32. name of road
\par   33. river in continent
\par   34. city in continent
\par   35. capital in continent
\par   36. state in continent
\par   37. point in continent
\par   38. mountain in continent
\par   39. lake in continent
\par   40. road in continent
\par 
\par\pard\plain\page

{\up6 #{\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 #}idh_Names}}
{\up6 ${\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 $}Names}}
{\up6 K{\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 K} Names}}
\pard \f11\fs20 name
\par\pard\plain\page

{\up6 #{\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 #}idh_Units_for_attributes}}
{\up6 ${\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 $}Units for attributes}}
{\up6 K{\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 K} Units for attributes}}
\pard \f11\fs20    \b Entity       Units\b0 
\par   population  citizens
\par   area        square kilometers
\par   length      kilometers
\par   height      meters
\par\pard\plain\page

{\up6 #{\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 #}idh_Words_stating_minimums}}
{\up6 ${\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 $}Words stating minimums}}
{\up6 K{\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 K} Words stating minimums}}
\pard \f11\fs20 smallest  shortest  minimum  least
\par smaller  lowest
\par\pard\plain\page

{\up6 #{\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 #}idh_Words_stating_maximums}}
{\up6 ${\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 $}Words stating maximums}}
{\up6 K{\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 K} Words stating maximums}}
\pard \f11\fs20 greatest  largest  biggest  maximum
\par longest  hightest
\par\pard\plain\page

{\up6 #{\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 #}idh_Alternaties_for_relation_operators}}
{\up6 ${\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 $}Alternaties for relation operators}}
{\up6 K{\footnote\pard\plain\s245 {\up6 K} Alternaties for relation operators}}
\pard \f11\fs20 \b Names of relational operators\b0 
\par lt: under
\par lt: less than
\par lt: shorter than
\par lt: smaller than
\par gt: more than
\par gt: longer than
\par gt: greatest than
\par gt: bigger than
\par gt: above
\par gt: over
\par\pard\plain\page
}